Welcome Mark if he comes to you clearly the Apostle Paul valued Mark and his services
Now we can imagine how we would feel if a member of the governing body wrote to a congregation and mentioned us by name and said
Please welcome us
That shows a lot of confidence and trust in us. So we know from this phrase how Paul felt about Mark
But how do you think that Mark felt when he read or he heard about what Paul had said?
Of course he had more reason to have this mean something to him more
Because of what it happened 10 years or more ago. He still remembers that incident with Paul and Barnabas at sharp burst of anger
Whether to take him along or not and
Paul made it very clear on that occasion. He did not want to take Mark along
Paul was really upset with Mark
Paul took Silas instead of Mark along and
Mark may have felt bad that he had created a rift
between two brothers that he really respected
So what can we learn from how Mark reacted when Paul didn't want to take him along?
Well, first of all, we don't know all the reasons why Mark left in the middle of an assignment to return to Jerusalem
But for the sake of our discussion. Let's consider two possibilities
Was Mark misunderstood
Now Mark may have felt that he left that assignment for very good reasons
But obviously Paul did not agree that it was a good reason to leave his assignment
Or it could be that Mark made a mistake in his decision to leave his assignment
He left out of fear or some other situation in Jerusalem
And it could be even afterwards that Mark agreed that he had made a mistake
Now whichever case it was whether Mark was misunderstood or he made a mistake
How did Mark handle the situation?
Well, let's consider three lessons one he communicated
Now Mark may have tried to explain why he left the assignment and
Clearly from the Bible record Barnabas tried to explain it
But maybe that's what happened to Barnabas was trying to explain to Paul
This is why Mark left and explaining it and the more he explained it the more their apostle Paul was like no, I disagree
Lesson for us
communicate
Many misunderstandings can be cleared up by communicating once the other person understands what happened or the situation
The misunderstanding can be cleared up
Maybe though
Because of the situation you feel like well, I really don't want to talk to that person
I really don't feel like explaining to them what happened. You tell yourself. I know how this conversation is going to go
But still give your brother or sister the dignity of explaining the situation to them
Of course as the situation with Mark and Barnabas and Paul illustrates
You can't always change people's minds by explaining it in more and more detail to them
They still may disagree and feel that you made a poor decision
What's a second lesson that we can learn from how Mark handled the situation
He kept working
Now when Barnabas asked him to go along with him and Paul decided to take Silas
Mark didn't say to Barnabas, you know what
Based on how Paul treated me with this whole situation
I'm not going anywhere on any more assignments. I'm going back to the life I had before
No, in fact over the next 10 to 15 years Mark was busy. He worked with Barnabas
He worked with the apostle Peter
Later he wrote the gospel of Mark which we feel is based a lot on the first hand accounts that he learned from the apostle Peter
So he didn't let that incident discourage him from moving forward and doing what he could to help the kingdom work
Well, that's a good lesson for us keep working
Paul gave this good advice to Timothy in 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse 10
This is this is why we are working hard and exerting ourselves
Because we have rested our hope in a living God who is a savior of all sorts of men, especially of faithful ones
So you see the good advice there by working hard and exerting ourselves we can be in the same way as the one we are working hard
working hard
And exerting ourselves we can be faithful ones and Mark proved himself to be a faithful one
Whatever assignment we have keep working
Don't let a misunderstanding or a mistake derail our service to Jehovah
granted it that's not always easy to do it takes strong love for Jehovah and for other people to get back to work
After we've had a misunderstanding or sometimes made a mistake
We need strength to avoid saying to ourselves
I'm never going to be useful to these brothers again my overseers will never give me another assignment or trust me
All of us make mistakes
Now I don't say that in the way that some people do you know
Sometimes they make a mistake and they say why everybody makes mistakes is almost to try to justify that
It's okay to make mistakes
But the reason I'm saying all of us make mistakes is to remember that your overseers have also made mistakes
They've been there they have empathy when you make a mistake because they've also been in that same position at times
Freely admitting that you made a mistake is a great step forward
Trying hard to justify yourself or make it sound like it really wasn't that bad
Doesn't usually help our cause that doesn't keep us from trying but we it doesn't normally help our cause much
Owning up the mistakes we make
Working hard to repair any damage done can go a long way to rebuilding that trust
A third lesson we can learn is that Mark did not write Paul off
He didn't say to himself. I am never going to work with Paul again
I'll work with Barnabas and Peter any of the other parcels
In fact, I'll work with anybody else, but I don't want to work with Paul again
Well, that's a good lesson for us. Don't write our overseer off
It's clear from today's text that Mark did good work for Paul
Paul appreciated his services if we look at 2nd Timothy
chapter 4 and verse 11
He says only Lucas with me
Bring Mark along with you for he's helpful to me in the ministry
So obviously when Mark had the chance again to work with the apostle Paul he did his best
Mark did not let that one event cloud his view of the privilege he had to assist the apostle Paul
Well, we can do the same as Mark
If an overseer has been disappointed in something we said or did the next time you get a chance to work for them do your best
Now you don't want your overseer to hold that one event against you for the rest of your life
So you shouldn't hold against him his reaction or his discipline against him for the rest of his life
So in summary have you ever been in Mark's position
Well, if you've been in special full-time service for some years
You have likely felt like Mark at least at some point
Either through a misunderstanding or a mistake we made
We disappointed our oversight or our actions cause some friction between other brothers
Our oversight may have made it clear that they were disappointed in us or
We may have been even given some strong counsel
If that's been the case or it may even be the case of something you're dealing with right now
Please review how Mark dealt with the situation
He communicated he kept working and he did not write Paul off
Someday we hope you may have your welcome mark moment